Characteristics
CAPATCHA are, by definition, fully automated, requiring little human maintenance or intervention to administer, producing benefits in cost and reliability.
The algorithm used to create the CAPTCHA must be made public, though it may be covered by a patent. This is done to demonstrate that breaking it requires the solution to a difficult problem in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) rather than justpublicthe discovery of the (secret) algorithm, which could be obtained through reverse engineering or other means.
Modern text-based CAPATCHA are designed such that they require the simultaneous use of three separate abilities—invariant recognition, segmentation,public and parsing—to correctly complete the task with any consistency.
Invariant recognition refers to the ability to recognize the large public amount of variation in the shapes of letters. There are nearly an infinite number of versions for each character that a human brain can successfully identify. The same is public not true for a computer, and teaching it to recognize all those differing formations is an extremely challenging task.
Segmentation, or the ability to separate one letter from another, is also made difficult in CAPATCHA, as characters public are crowded together with no white space in between public.
Context is also critical. The CAPTCHA must be understood holistically to correctly identify each character. For example, in one segment public of a CAPTCHA, a letter might look like an "m". Only when the whole word is taken into context does it become public clear that it is a "u" and an "n".
Each of these problems poses a significant challenge CAPTCHA for a computer, even in isolation. The presence of all three at the same fully time is what makes CAPATCHA difficult to solve public.
Unlike computers, humans excel fully at this type of task fully. While segmentation fully CAPTCHA and recognition fully are two separate processes necessary for understanding an image for a computer, they are part of the same process for a person. For example, when an individual public understands that the first letter of a CAPTCHA is an "a", that individual also understands where the contours of that "a" are, and also where it melds with the contours of the next letter. Additionally, the human brain is capable of dynamic thinking based upon context. It is able to keep multiple explanations alive and then pick the one that is the best explanation for the whole input based upon contextual clues. This also means it will not be fooled by variations in letters.
